First Blog


1) Write a blog on Difference between HTTP1.1 vs HTTP2

HTTP2 Vs. HTTP1.1

HTTP/1.1 has been around for more than a decade. With Google’s SPDY leading the way in 2015, the IETF gave us HTTP/2, 
which introduces several features to reduce page load times. 
HTTP/2 achieves faster webpage loading without performance optimizations that require extensive human efforts in terms of development. 
It significantly reduces the complexities that had crept into HTTP/1.1 and gives us a robust protocol which, though not without its flaws, 
will perhaps stand the test of time. 

Key Features of HTTP/2:

Introduces the concept of multiplexing that interleaves the requests and responses without head-of-line blocking and does so over a single TCP connection.
HTTP2 is much faster and more reliable than HTTP1. HTTP1 loads a single request for every TCP connection, while HTTP2 avoids network delay by using multiplexing.

Key Features of HTTP/2:

It introduces the concept of a server push where the server anticipates the resources that will be required by the client and 
pushes them prior to the client making requests. 
The client retains the authority to deny the server push; however, in most cases, this feature adds a lot of efficiency to the process.
Introduces the concept of multiplexing that interleaves the requests and responses without head-of-line blocking and does so over a single TCP connection.

HTTP/1.x vs HTTP/2: 

HTTP2 Vs. HTTP1 is not a debate at all. HTTP2 is much faster and more reliable than HTTP1.
HTTP1 loads a single request for every TCP connection, while HTTP2 avoids network delay by using multiplexing.
HTTP is a network delay sensitive protocol in the sense that if there is less network delay, then the page loads faster. 
However, an impressive increase in network bandwidth only slightly improves page load time. 
This is key to understanding the differences in performance efficiencies between the different versions of HTTP.

Adoption Of HTTP/2
HTTP/2 penetration on the client side is more than 70% as most major browsers support HTTP/2 and on the server side,
we have major tech giants like Google, Facebook, Nginx, etc. who have their own servers supporting HTTP/2. 
The adoption rate, according to W3Techs, is currently around 29% globally.



2)Write a blog about objects and its internal representation in Javascript

In simple terms. “A JavaScript object is a collection of named values having state and behavior (properties and method)”.
For example: Person, car, pen, bike, Personal Computer , Washing Machine etc.

1)Objects:
The following code assigns a simple value (Mercedes) to a variable named car:
var car = "Mercedes";
Objects are variables too. But objects can contain many values.

The following code assigns many values (Mercedes, C-class, White and soo on) to a variable named Car:
var car = {Make: “Mercedes”, Model: “C-Class”, Color: “White”, Fuel: Diesel, Weight: “850kg”, Mileage: “8Kmpl”, Rating: 4.5};
The values are written as name:value pairs (name and value separated by a colon).

Syntax:
var <object-name> = {key1: value1, key2: value2,... keyN: valueN};
So, conclusion and definition for JS objects is “JavaScript objects are containers for named values”.

2)Object Properties

The name:values pairs (in JavaScript objects) are called properties.
var car = {Make: “Mercedes”, Model: “C-Class”, Color: “White”, Fuel: Diesel, Weight: 2000“

So, Conclusion and simple definition for Java Script objects is “JavaScript objects are containers for named values”.
and defination of Javascript properties is “Properties are the values associated with a JavaScript object”. 


